doc/code/index.md, before:

---
title: Code
template: page.jade
menuIndex: 1
subsectionIndex: 1
---

# Overview

VPDB consists of three different tiers: the **API**, the **storage engine** and
the **web application** that is running in your browser.


## The API

The API is VPDB's interface to its application logic. It is a RESTful HTTP
service that can be accessed by any type of client that can talk JSON over
HTTP. There's a whole section about it [here][api].


## The Storage Engine

The storage engine handles everything file-related, such as:

 - File uploads
 - Post-processing
 - Downloads
 - Quota management

Check out the [storage section][storage], which contains information how the
interface works and how the code is organized.

## The Web Application

This is the site you see at [https://vpdb.io/][vpdb]. Markup, styles and assets
are all served statically, while dynamic data is obtained from the API. We use
[AngularJS][angular] as our web application framework and styles based on
[Twitter Bootstrap][bootstrap] (with lots of custom styles). You can check out
the documentation of the web application [here][webapp].


# Server Code

Both the API and the storage code live in the `./server` sub folder. We won't
get into much detail here, but briefly the structure is the following:

 - The application script is `./app.js`, at the root of the project.
 - Files sitting at `./server/` bootstrap the application and they are only 
   executed once at startup.
 - The `models` sub folder contains the [Mongoose][mongoose] schemas.
 - API logic sits at `controllers/api`.
 - Generic application logic sits at `modules`.


# Client Code

While the API and the storage engine are both part of the server component, the
client code lives in a different sub folder called `./client`. The structure is
as follows:

 - Application logic can be found in the `app` folder. The application code is
   separated *by feature* and you'll find
   Javascript code as well as the [Jade][jade] templates.
 - Everything in `static` gets just copied over to the site root directory.
 - The `styles` folder contains the [Stylus][stylus] files. It gets also
   minified in production, along with the styles from the vendor libraries.

For more information, check out the [Web Application section][webapp]

## Other Folders

 - `data` contains useful assets for tests and other things.
 - `deploy` contains scripts and config files for a production setup (see
   [INSTALL][INSTALL]).
 - `doc` is what you're reading now.
 - `test` contains the automated tests.

There are also a few generated folders:

 - `bower_components` contains the client-side libraries downloaded by
   [Bower][bower].
 - `node_modules` contains the server-side libraries downloaded by [NPM][npm].
 - `build` is the web application root generated by `grunt build`.
 - `devsite` contains the generated developer site you're browsing now.


[api]: /api
[storage]: /code/storage
[webapp]: /code/webapp
[vpdb]: https://vpdb.io/
[angular]: https://angularjs.org/
[bootstrap]: http://getbootstrap.com/
[mongoose]: http://mongoosejs.com/
[stylus]: http://learnboost.github.io/stylus/
[jade]: http://jade-lang.com/
[bower]: http://bower.io/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[INSTALL]: https://github.com/freezy/node-vpdb/blob/master/INSTALL.md

Commit message:

Migrated from Jade to Pug :dizzy_face:

doc/code/index.md, after:

---
title: Code
layout: page.pug
menuIndex: 1
subsectionIndex: 1
---

# Overview

VPDB consists of three different tiers: the **API**, the **storage engine** and
the **web application** that is running in your browser.


## The API

The API is VPDB's interface to its application logic. It is a RESTful HTTP
service that can be accessed by any type of client that can talk JSON over
HTTP. There's a whole section about it [here][api].


## The Storage Engine

The storage engine handles everything file-related, such as:

 - File uploads
 - Post-processing
 - Downloads
 - Quota management

Check out the [storage section][storage], which contains information how the
interface works and how the code is organized.

## The Web Application

This is the site you see at [https://vpdb.io/][vpdb]. Markup, styles and assets
are all served statically, while dynamic data is obtained from the API. We use
[AngularJS][angular] as our web application framework and styles based on
[Twitter Bootstrap][bootstrap] (with lots of custom styles). You can check out
the documentation of the web application [here][webapp].


# Server Code

Both the API and the storage code live in the `./server` sub folder. We won't
get into much detail here, but briefly the structure is the following:

 - The application script is `./app.js`, at the root of the project.
 - Files sitting at `./server/` bootstrap the application and they are only 
   executed once at startup.
 - The `models` sub folder contains the [Mongoose][mongoose] schemas.
 - API logic sits at `controllers/api`.
 - Generic application logic sits at `modules`.


# Client Code

While the API and the storage engine are both part of the server component, the
client code lives in a different sub folder called `./client`. The structure is
as follows:

 - Application logic can be found in the `app` folder. The application code is
   separated *by feature* and you'll find
   Javascript code as well as the [Pug][pug] templates.
 - Everything in `static` gets just copied over to the site root directory.
 - The `styles` folder contains the [Stylus][stylus] files. It gets also
   minified in production, along with the styles from the vendor libraries.

For more information, check out the [Web Application section][webapp]

## Other Folders

 - `data` contains useful assets for tests and other things.
 - `deploy` contains scripts and config files for a production setup (see
   [INSTALL][INSTALL]).
 - `doc` is what you're reading now.
 - `test` contains the automated tests.

There are also a few generated folders:

 - `bower_components` contains the client-side libraries downloaded by
   [Bower][bower].
 - `node_modules` contains the server-side libraries downloaded by [NPM][npm].
 - `build` is the web application root generated by `grunt build`.
 - `devsite` contains the generated developer site you're browsing now.


[api]: /api
[storage]: /code/storage
[webapp]: /code/webapp
[vpdb]: https://vpdb.io/
[angular]: https://angularjs.org/
[bootstrap]: http://getbootstrap.com/
[mongoose]: http://mongoosejs.com/
[stylus]: http://learnboost.github.io/stylus/
[pug]: https://github.com/pugjs
[bower]: http://bower.io/
[npm]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[INSTALL]: https://github.com/freezy/node-vpdb/blob/master/INSTALL.md
